to finish our leaves what we're going to
do is apply a coat of glaze and what
that's going to do is really create this
beautiful glossy finish and it's also
going to you can see there these are
look quite dusty once we've added all
the the color to the surface and so we
want to make sure that we kind of get
rid of that dusty look and also if
you're going to be using your your
flowers on a cake or another surface
because we've got so many other because
we've got so much dust on the leaves we
just want to make sure that we contain
it and it doesn't scatter all over
anything
so the glaze is a really really great
way to do that we're going to be using
confectioner's glaze and confectioners
glaze is basically a two fruit grade
product that is used in to cover sugar
showpieces to protect them from humidity
it's also used occasionally in candy
making there are some candies that have
a glazed or glassy look on the outer
surface and so this is what the
manufacturers use I'm in order to create
that look the glaze can be found online
and we're going to be I'm including the
the links on the the resources for that
in the course materials so you can you
can find it a couple of things about it
that you want to consider are that it's
it's quite sticky so we really want to
UM be careful when we're using it what I
tend to do is I just buy little
disposable paper cups and I pour the
glaze in there and and then when I'm
finished with it I can just toss it so
it really don't want to be putting
something really sticky in any of you
know your favorite glass little bowls I
also buy disposable brushes to use when
I'm making my leaves and glazing them so
these are just use these usually come in
a packet of about thirty that I buy at
the craft store they're very inexpensive
and usually when I'm making leaves I
make quite a few at the same time and
then I glaze them all at the same time
and it's the same thing we're because
the glaze can really ruin a bra
should make it very sticky I just find
it's much easier to just use a brush
that I can throw away once I'm finished
so what we're going to do is just take a
little bit of this glaze
and first let's do our little filler
flower leaves trick with the glaze is to
use a very light coat one that's going
to help it dry very quickly and two
really don't want a lot of Dripping
going on because that may actually cause
some streaks in the dusting that you've
previously done so my trick for this is
really just using a little bit on the
brush and instead of painting I just use
a dabbing motion and what I find is that
this really gives it a nice thin coat
and then I don't get any streak marks in
the dust and all I'm going to do is just
dab it over the entire surface area of
the leaf and you can see how it's
becoming nice and glossy you can also do
multiple coats of this if you wish once
the first coat dries if you want even
more gloss then you could add a second
coat this glaze is also really great if
you're making little gum paste berries
like raspberries or blackberries or snow
berries those also have a really pretty
shiny look to them and so this is a
really great finishing technique for
them as well
[Music]